p8105\_hw3\_dk2759
================
Darwin Keung
10/7/2018

Homework 3 Context This assignment reinforces ideas in Visualization and
EDA.

Due date Due: October 15 at 4:00pm.

Points Problem 0: 10 points Problem 1: 30 points Problem 2: 30 points
Problem 3: 30 points Problem 0 This “problem” focuses on structure of
your submission, especially the use git and GitHub for reproducibility,
R Projects to organize your work, R Markdown to write reproducible
reports, relative paths to load data from local files, and reasonable
naming structures for your files.

To that end:

create a public GitHub repo + local R Project; we suggest naming this
repo / directory p8105\_hw3\_YOURUNI (e.g. p8105\_hw3\_ajg2202 for
Jeff), but that’s not required create a single .Rmd file named
p8105\_hw3\_YOURUNI.Rmd that renders to github\_document Your solutions
to Problems 1, 2, and 3 should be implemented in your .Rmd file, and
your git commit history should reflect the process you used to solve
these Problems.

For this Problem, we will assess adherence to the instructions above
regarding repo structure, git commit history, and whether we are able to
knit your .Rmd to ensure that your work is reproducible. Adherence to
appropriate styling and clarity of code will be assessed in Problems 1+
using the homework style rubric.

This homework includes figures; the readability of your embedded plots
(e.g. font sizes, axis labels, titles) will be assessed in Problems 1+.

Problem 1 This problem uses the BRFSS data. DO NOT include this dataset
in your local data directory; instead, load the data from the
p8105.datasets package.

First, do some data cleaning:

format the data to use appropriate variable names; focus on the “Overall
Health” topic include only responses from “Excellent” to “Poor” organize
responses as a factor taking levels ordered from “Excellent” to “Poor”
Using this dataset, do or answer the following (commenting on the
results of each):

In 2002, which states were observed at 7 locations? Make a “spaghetti
plot” that shows the number of locations in each state from 2002 to
2010. Make a table showing, for the years 2002, 2006, and 2010, the mean
and standard deviation of the proportion of “Excellent” responses across
locations in NY State. For each year and state, compute the average
proportion in each response category (taking the average across
locations in a state). Make a five-panel plot that shows, for each
response category separately, the distribution of these state-level
averages over time. Problem 2 This problem uses the Instacart data. DO
NOT include this dataset in your local data directory; instead, load the
data from the p8105.datasets package (it’s called instacart).

The goal is to do some exploration of this dataset. To that end, write a
short description of the dataset, noting the size and structure of the
data, describing some key variables, and giving illstrative examples of
observations. Then, do or answer the following (commenting on the
results of each):

How many aisles are there, and which aisles are the most items ordered
from? Make a plot that shows the number of items ordered in each aisle.
Order aisles sensibly, and organize your plot so others can read it.
Make a table showing the most popular item in each of the aisles “baking
ingredients”, “dog food care”, and “packaged vegetables fruits”. Make a
table showing the mean hour of the day at which Pink Lady Apples and
Coffee Ice Cream are ordered on each day of the week; format this table
for human readers (i.e. produce a 2 x 7 table). Problem 3 This problem
uses the NY NOAA data. DO NOT include this dataset in your local data
directory; instead, load the data from the p8105.datasets package (it’s
called ny\_noaa).

The goal is to do some exploration of this dataset. To that end, write a
short description of the dataset, noting the size and structure of the
data, describing some key variables, and indicating the extent to which
missing data is an issue. Then, do or answer the following (commenting
on the results of each):

Do some data cleaning. Create separate variables for year, month, and
day. Ensure observations for temperature, precipitation, and snowfall
are given in reasonable units. For snowfall, what are the most commonly
observed values? Why? Make a two-panel plot showing the average max
temperature in January and in July in each station across years. Is
there any observable / interpretable structure? Any outliers? Make a
two-panel plot showing (i) tmax vs tmin for the full dataset (note that
a scatterplot may not be the best option); and (ii) make a plot showing
the distribution of snowfall values greater than 0 and less than 100
separately by year.
